there really are only two macro-level
motivators that we have in life and
that's pleasure and pain and so what I
want people to understand is okay so if
nature only gave you two things to
motivate you pleasure and pain why would
you eliminate half of them and so most
people think that life is about avoiding
the pain I'm here to tell you right now
in a very controlled fashion it is about
really experiencing the pain learning
from it so Ray Dalio the most successful
hedge fund manager of all time has a
perfect math equation pain plus
reflection equals progress if you don't
feel the pain you never reflect on it so
my thing is I spend eighty percent of my
time focused on the beautiful things in
my life the things I'm grateful for the
beautiful things that I want to bring
into existence all of it twenty percent
of the time though I'm in the darkness
man I'm in that Tim Grover relentless
I'm going to make this happen if I have
to break myself and I'm not afraid to
lean into that because I know how
powerful it is now if you really want to
put numbers how powerful is this is they
did a study and they wanted to find out
what happens how can we get people to
endure more pain and the punchline is
hilarious so they would take people and
they would submerge their arm in a
bucket of ice and they would just hold
it there as long as you can now first
it's just cold but after a while it
really starts to hurt and so people
would end up yanking their arms out they
found that people could hold their arm
in the bucket 35 percent longer if you
let them display anger so put it in they
get to that point where they're about to
pull it out and you tell them yell costs
do whatever you need to and they'd be
able to do it there the expression of
intensity even what I'm doing right now
I can feel myself and ready right I'm
ready to strike my muscles are tense
I've got a different posture I bring my
chin down there's intensity in my eyes
like dude I'm now feeling that because
I'm embodying it right so it makes me
really feel that and so I actually
started to tell the story earlier I hate
the gym but what I would do to make
myself workout as I would my wife would
be on the opposite side of the gym and I
would stare at her and I would imagine
her being attacked and I would imagine
her being attacked by people bigger than
me and that the only way that I could
fight them off is to get stronger it's
there was nothing beautiful in it I was
not worried about aesthetics I was
worried about saving my wife and by
stepping into that dark place and
because people like what are you
yeah but dude that was I needed that
motivation to push past what I want to
push past pain boredom all of it and
just to really get into it and get a
result but I find that people shy away
from that look to me it's an 80/20 split
if you're spending more than 20% of your
time there it will be corrosive yeah it
will start to erode your sense of self
because you're gonna feel badly right
because I would be saying to myself
you're weak come on like you've got to
get stronger if you spend 80% of your
time doing that yeah that sucks yes I
don't want to live like that right but
not being able to dip into both you'll
just never hit the level of
extraordinary you may be fine you may
even be good yep but you're never gonna
be great I don't even think you're ever
gonna be completely happy and I'll tell
you why this is gonna be something that
people will snip this part because you
have to dip into that dark place and
here's the other reason you have to do
it you and I both know people who used
to do it who no longer do friends of us
who have sold a company and didn't go to
the next level and fund the next thing
what happens is if you spend all your
time in the pleasure place thinking
about it only experiencing it you become
dull to it that's the contrast in life
that give you all the juice to give you
all the passion so letting yourself go
feel pain and discomfort in the dark
place makes the light place the pleasure
place so much more ecstasy power passion
when you go back to that state because
of the contrast if you're constantly
sitting and just warm water all the time
it just sort of eventually wrinkles you
up you got to have contrast in your life
and so it's not just a place where it's
a catalyst for change it's a catalyst
for happiness ironically is going to the
dark place
[Music]